# Contribution guidelines

Contributing to this project should be as easy and transparent as possible, whether it's:

- Reporting a bug
- Discussing the current state of the code
- Submitting a fix
- Proposing new features

## Github is used for everything

Github is used to host code, to track issues and feature requests, as well as accept pull requests.

Pull requests are the best way to propose changes to the codebase.

1. Fork the repo and create your branch from `main`.
2. If you've changed something, update the documentation.
3. Make sure your code lints (using black).
4. Test you contribution.
5. Issue that pull request!

## Any contributions you make will be under the MIT Software License

In short, when you submit code changes, your submissions are understood to be under the same [MIT License](http://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/) that covers the project. Feel free to contact the maintainers if that's a concern.

## Report bugs using Github's [issues](../../issues)

GitHub issues are used to track public bugs. Report a bug by [opening a new issue](../../issues/new/choose); it's that easy!

## Write bug reports with detail, background, and sample code

**Great Bug Reports** tend to have:

- A quick summary and/or background
- Steps to reproduce
  - Be specific!
  - Give sample code if you can.
- What you expected would happen
- What actually happens
- Notes (possibly including why you think this might be happening, or stuff you tried that didn't work)

People _love_ thorough bug reports. I'm not even kidding.

## Use a Consistent Coding Style

Use [black](https://github.com/ambv/black) to make sure the code follows the style. The repository includes a `settings.json` for [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com) to enforce this.

## Test your code modification

Testing and configuration is based on [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org) and is used for all package management and testing.

You should also verify that existing [tests](./tests) are still working and you are encouraged to add new ones. You are also encouraged to add tests that at least maintain the current level of code coverage. You can run the tests using the following commands from the root folder:

```bash
poetry install    # Only required the first time
poetry run pytest
```

A coverage report is automatically generated by the project's `pyproject.toml` and you can optionally generate an HTML report for more detailed analysis by adding `--cov-report=html` to the command line above.

When debugging with Visual Studio Code, you will need to ensure that the following is included in your launch configuration as `pytest-cov` [cannot be debugged](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/python/testing). The repository includes a `launch.json` that includes this.

``` json
"env": {"PYTEST_ADDOPTS": "--no-cov"},
```

## License

By contributing, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under its MIT License.
